All right, going back to the vision,
I often think about it is
maybe as a team charter.
It's a team charter is really
trying to help tell you
about what your team does,
and I think this is a great
exercise to do with a team and
think about why you exist.
It brings a clarity on the team's
mission and goals, and
this clarity helps the team, but
it also helps partners and stakeholders,
maybe leadership,
to just understand why that team exists.
When it gets that alignment, I oftentimes
think about there's ownership of
different things that are getting passed
around in a company and being like,
Jem's team should own this.
Because his charter says this or
his charter says this,
they probably shouldn't own that.
And so, it helps bring clarity and
alignment for people across the business.
It also has team accountability,
this one's a really good,
your team has a better sense
of what they should focus on.
And even when requests come to them,
they're kinda saying,
that doesn't quite fit our charter,
maybe another team should do this.
Or they can raise that flag versus
just opting to do the work,
cuz you wanna make sure that
you're taking on the right things.
So I like to think about the exercise,
breaking it down from a high level.
There's a good book called The Advantage,
these questions aren't exactly pulled from
The Advantage book, but
it talks a lot about that and saying like,
focusing really high level on,
who are our customers?
What do we own as a team, what are we
responsible for, what don't we do?
That's an important one,
right, we don't do or
own the UI,
we only leverage the API and own that.
And so when a request comes to us to do
something on the UI, that's not us, and
it's very clear and people know that.
Why does our team exist?
I mean, it could be just
to bring joy to customers,
it could be to make money,
I don't know, but
you want to have a good clarity statement
around why you exist as a team.
And then how do you operate, what
are things that you want to do as a team?
How's the culture within your team,
what makes you successful?
And then, yeah, how are you successful,
how do you know you're
doing the right things?
So, we're gonna run through
an exercise where we will
actually go through and
start to brainstorm a team charter.
What I want you all to do is think
about your team that you're on now,
maybe an existing team,
maybe just some made up team.
And think about answering those questions
about why you exist, how do you operate,
and this is a great exercise I've done
with my team in smaller breakout groups.
And what's really cool to do it
that way is you kind of bring it
all back together and it can be in bullet
points and going through that way.
Ideally at the end of the, kind of the end
state that you have, it's very clear,
concise, like one to two sentence for
each of those questions.
But by doing the small
breakout groups with the team,
you get to kinda see
different perspectives.
And oftentimes a lot of commonality,
sometimes completely different things that
come up, but it's been really helpful.
I know at first when I started doing this,
I was like,
I don't know if this is that helpful,
but I've done it a few times now to know
that it is bringing a lot of clarity for
the team.
So, I will show you the exercise here,
which is available as a Google Doc,
it outlines the questions and
really like I said, it can be bullet form.
Focus and think about as a team,
what you do as a team,
and think about that, and
we will circle back after that.
Welcome back from doing the exercise
of creating your team charter.
So hopefully you all found that useful,
I'm curious for
the audience what are some of
the things that you thought about,
what was something that was maybe
difficult to think about for your team?
>> So, I have two teams right now, and
I started by trying to think of
the smaller team that I have.
And I think what this was very
illuminating for me for is I've lacked
a lot of the clarity on team charter and
team goals and objectives for that team.
We have kind of a duality of projects
with a platform that currently supports
the majority of our business and
a future looking platform merging
with our parent company in Bangkok.
And the smaller team is responsible for
a kind of nebulous goal
of figuring out how we get onto that
platform in Bangkok [COUGH] and so
with a small team,
with kind of a very big scope like that,
it's been very difficult to
find that kind of team charter.
And so this was helpful for
me in finding a framing device for
perhaps having a conversation
with my directors to figure
out how can we reign that in,
how can we find something achievable and
useful to the company
that's within our means.
>> I like that, and I definitely even
recommend hearing from the team to, like,
yeah, like what did
they think of that too?
And I think sometimes taking a step
back could be an interest even,
this is a good exercise that something
even if you have a team that exists
already, which oftentimes you are like,
even as a new manager coming in,
like the teams might already existed for
years, right?
And so I think sometimes just taking
that step back can really help and
hopefully bring that clarity too,
any other thoughts?
>> I work at a 20 person startup, so the
question of what don't we do it's kind of
hard to answer given that we
have one engineering team.
But for that one it's kind of thinking
through what do our stakeholders do and
how do we kind of interact with them
of what do they do that helps us
deliver software at the end of the day.
So, we have a data science team so
kind of working with them, and then,
since we're in a regulated space too,
we work with a lot of regulatory and
quality and
we have to produce deliverables for those.
But we don't end up packaging
those up at the end of the day and
sending those things out to the FDA and
things like that.
So, kind of even just making it clear of
what those different boundaries are to
kind of answer that one since the team
itself does do everything else for
the product.
>> I love that, so you're just
responsible for everything, yeah.
But, yeah,
I hope that what I heard there too it's
almost like maybe even prioritizing,
it's like thinking about, well, here's,
maybe it's not what we don't do.
There's probably a couple,
but it's even like,
how do we think about the priorities, and
maybe there are certain ones that for
the regulatory things, you're like,
we can't miss that, right?
It's like that for the team to have that
clarity, but yeah, that's an interesting
one, yeah, when you're like,
we just kind of do everything.
>> I have the exact same
problem with writing the, and
I feel with that it's almost,
cuz we operate as two large teams,
I feel like we almost need to break
down the team into smaller teams and
actually give ownership to things.
So that there is more of that,
or it's less nebulous.
These people own this part of
the platform, cuz yeah, I was really
struggling with the what don't we do,
it's like we again do everything.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Right, yeah, and I like that, too,
as it could be just certain people on
the team might be the like you own this.
And so it's like you might not be
responsible for the 100 other things
that's someone else's part and so
even having some of that clarity.
That can sometimes get in my mind
a little bit too deep in some ways,
maybe it's I think more for speaking to
partners but maybe that is good, is like
they can even have, I go to Joe for
this and I go to Sally for this, right,
it does bring them that clarity and that
might change and evolve over time, Mark.
>> Online someone said, Natalie said,
I'm realizing from the charter
exercise that my last team could have
probably clarified our OKRs and vision.
We were an acquisition team that were
thrown into a lot broader concerns because
of this.
>> Yep, I have been there many times and
even when I said I think at first
when I thought of doing this team charter,
I was like, that's kind of useless.
Like I'll admit, and it doesn't, it feels
like that even when I first like think
about it but once you start bringing
that clarity out, it really helps.
I've been on teams where you
struggle to have that identity or
you're trying to do too many things and
you don't deliver what you should
be delivering, and so I think that
is a really good callout, Mark.
>> For OKRs,
is it more setting realistic OKRs or
more on the influential side of
getting your OKRs prioritized?
>> That's a really good question,
I think it's like you want them
to be somewhat realistic and
you wanna be thoughtful on that, but it's
also okay not to meet them either, right?
There's definitely been times where,
right now with like, being in productivity
engineering at Netflix is a lot of it
is relying on customer satisfaction.
Our customers are engineers at Netflix,
and so we're running surveys
where I might say, last year our
satisfaction for this product was 85%.
Maybe my OKR is something I wanna
maintain that or I wanna grow it to 90%.
And it might drop, that's not bad,
I mean, that was a bit aspirational and
we didn't deliver on that,
that's not a bad thing.
Cuz it also allows you to go,
what happened, what what was wrong?
So I think about it not way, but
there again, don't measure everything,
please don't do that cuz that's
just the wrong thing, Jem.
>> If I was hitting 100% of my OKRs,
I'm doing something wrong,
I'm not trying hard enough or
making it really, really easy.
So I'd say they should be
aspirational to some degree, but
you don't wanna hit like 30% of your OKRs,
then you're not you're not measuring
properly or something's off but.
>> Yeah, maybe it's like 80%, yeah,
so you wanna be realistic, but
you also don't wanna low ball it either.
It's like, yeah, we're gonna slip in
customer satisfaction, and so that's cool,
we can just sit back and that's fine.
It's like, no,
you wanna strive for something and
improve that, that's a good call out.